Utilcoin
========

Utilcoin is a second generation crypto-currency that differs from Bitcoin in three important ways. The first change is a small change in the rate of production of Utilcoins from the rate of production of Bitcoins meant to maximize economic efficiency.  The second and third changes dramatically alter the function of Utilcoin by adding several layers of security that users may choose to use or not use.  These changes are intended to exponentially increase the security of Utilcoin's code in comparison to Bitcoin.  Although transaction malleability was not a hack, the loss of 6% of all Bitcoins currently in existence screams that something must be done. 

The first change regards its initial mining reward of 17.76 UTC which halves every four years, but to avoid the violent fluctuations in market supply and demand associated with Bitcoin's sudden halving, Utilcoin compounds once every five days rather than once every 4 years.  Furthermore, Utilcoin has an added 3% annual growth rate in the production of Utilcoins; every money ever chosen on the market had a small percentile rate of growth: gold, silver, salt, seashells, cows, etc. This small percentile rate is meant to mimick the growth rate of the economy, so while the initial mining reward, which is halved every 4 years, offers incentives for early adoption the 3% growth rate makes long-term calculation of profit and loss (which is calculated in terms of units of money) as simple as possible by eliminating the need to account for fluctuations in the price of money.   

The next changes are meant to fix a fatal flaw in Bitcoin, that fatal flaw is that no one is responsible for flaws in Bitcoin's code.  When transaction malleability was taken advantage of there was nothing Bitcoin users could do, they could either accept it and continue to use Bitcoin or stop using the currency entirely, they had no alternatives.  Utilcoin is designed so that multiple networks are running simultaneously, some are compatible while others are not. In the case of a breach users not only have a liable party to hold responsible, but alternate Utilcoin networks to choose from thus introducing free-market competition into the security of a single coin.

The first of these security changes is to merge Utilcoin with a tagging system, such as Coloredcoins.  Different individuals or institutions would copy the original Utilcoin code and create their own changes to maximize the security of Utilcoin's code by creating their own Utilcoin network and applying a unique coloring to all Utilcoins within their network.  Existing Utilcoin users could then choose which network they wanted to use, if any.  The institutions securing their own networks would determine the policies that best fit their consumers and would most likely charge a fee for use of their network (note that there would be no necessity to use such an institution and Utilcoin could be used without such an institution in the way Bitcoin is today).  If a flaw in the code was exposed, instead of being left empty-handed with no one to blame but coding as is the case with Bitcoin, Utilcoin users could sue the appropriate security institution and receive recompense.

The second change can be independent of although it is closely related to the first.  This security change is a feature that allows each institution to determine what color UTC's they will accept.  For example, Blue UTC company may require its users to give basic identification information and will only allow transactions with other colors of UTC that do the same.  Thieves would generally stray away from a coin that required contact information, thus adding a layer of security to each coin by limiting where it can be spent.  Although at first glance this sounds anti-thetical to the open-nature and voluntarism of Bitcoin it is in fact an enhancement.  Because users choose what color coin they use they are the ultimate decision makers regarding where UTC's can and can't be sent.  If Utilcoin users only want to transact with other users that have given their contact information that is their right, furthermore many users may choose not to use a colored coin at all thus preserving the original character of Bitcoin within the Utilcoin framework.  

In summation the purpose of Utilcoin is to improve upon Bitcoins efficiency by altering its rate of coin production and regressively decaying initial mining reward and to allow its users to customize their own levels of security to best fit their personal needs.  Although Bitcoin is much more open than traditional fiat and centrally planned monetary systems, it does not allow for internal competition.  Utilcoin aims to fix this.

(Specifics are not covered because they cannot be, it is impossible to predict the future structure of a market, what is possible is to create a framework that creates incentives that maximize user utility.  This is the purpose of Utilcoin.)
